Entities are a generic term for Heros, Enemies, and Items in Wyx. An entity is
simply a collection of Components.

A Component is just some behavior and associated properties, wrapped up in a
re-usable container. See Components.txt for a list of currently available
Components and their properties.

To make a new entity, just create a new file in the appropriate directory, and
the game will see it. The format for entity files is fairly straightforward;
it's just some descriptive lines and a list of the Components and properties
that you wish to override (that is, if you do not provide a Component or
property that the entity requires, a default will be supplied by Wyx).

All entity files are written in a text format called JSON (see www.json.org
for info). This is a fairly simple format consisting of nested key-value
pairs. If an entity file is not valid JSON, Wyx will error.

You do not have to specify all properties for a component. If required
properties are missing, Wyx will fill them in with defaults (see
"Component Properties" in Components.txt for default values).

Likewise, you do not have to specify all components. Any required components
will be created with default values by Wyx (see "Default Components" in
Components.txt for a list).

FORMAT
------
An entity file has the following fields:
{
    "name": "Big Bad Something (OPTIONAL)",
    "family": "Some Family",
    "kind": "Kind within the Family",
    "variation": 1,
	"description": "Descriptive text here (OPTIONAL)",
	"unique": true,
    "components": {
         ...
    }
}

The name field is optional, but the rest are required. If the name is not
supplied, then the entity is given a name composed of its family, kind, and
variation values.


NAME (OPTIONAL):
This can be anything you want. For generic entities, it's probably better not
to provide a name. For special entities (powerful enemies or hand-crafted
items), it would be more appropriate to provide a name. Also, players will
provide their own names in the game, so there's not much reason to give names
to hero entities.

FAMILY:
This is the family that the entity belongs to. For heroes and enemies, it's
likely their race (such as "Human" or "Deep Dwarf"). For items, it's likely
the slot the item will fit into in the inventory (such as "Weapon" or "Ring").

KIND:
This is more specific than family. For enemies and heroes, it might be their
class (such as "Archer" or "Grunt"). For items, it might be the type of item
(such as "Sword" for weapons, or "Ruby" for rings).

VARIATION:
This must be a number, and is simply a way to further differentiate entities
from one another. For instance, a normal Zombie might be variation 1, but a
slightly faster Zombie could use mostly the same properties as the first
Zombie, and just modify the Speed property, and change the variation to 2. Now
there are two Zombies, mostly identical but one is faster than the other.

DESCRIPTION (OPTIONAL):
This must be a string. If specified it will be shown whenever a description of
the entity is asked for in the game, such as at the bottom of tooltips.

UNIQUE (OPTIONAL):
This must be either true or false. If specified and true, then only one copy
of this entity is allowed to exist in the world at one time. It does not
guarantee that the entity will exist, just that no more than one will exist.

COMPONENTS:
See Components.txt.


EXAMPLES
--------
See the examples in the "entity" directory.


